Add blog post announcing the Checkpoint/Restore WG (#53611)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2026-XX-XX-announcing-checkpoint-restore-wg.md

---
title: "Announcing the Checkpoint/Restore Working Group"
date: 2026-XX-XX
draft: true
slug: introducing-checkpoint-restore-wg
author: >
  [Radostin Stoyanov](https://github.com/rst0git),
  [Viktória Spišaková](https://github.com/viktoriaas),
  [Adrian Reber](https://github.com/adrianreber),
  [Peter Hunt](https://github.com/haircommander)
---

The community around Kubernetes includes a number of Special Interest Groups (SIGs) and Working Groups (WGs) facilitating discussions on important topics between interested contributors. Today we would like to announce the new [Kubernetes Checkpoint Restore WG](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/wg-checkpoint-restore) focusing on the integration of Checkpoint/Restore functionality into Kubernetes.

## Motivation and Use Cases

There are a few high-level scenarios that are discussed in the working group:

- Optimizing resource utilization for interactive workloads (e.g., Jupyter Notebooks, AI chatbots)
- Accelerating startup of applications with long initialization times (e.g., Java applications, LLM inference serving)

> - Periodic checkpointing as a fault-tolerance mechanism for long-running workloads (e.g., machine learning training)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Periodic checkpointing as a fault-tolerance mechanism for long-running workloads (for example, machine learning training)
```

- Pod migration across nodes to enable maintenance and load balancing without disrupting running workloads
- Forensic container checkpointing for investigating and analyzing security incidents, such as cyberattacks, data breaches, or unauthorized access

In all these cases, the intent is to help facilitate discussions of ideas between the growing Kubernetes and CRIU communities. The CRIU community itself includes a number of projects broadly aimed at assisting with these use cases including:

- [CRIU](https://github.com/checkpoint-restore/criu) - A tool for checkpointing and restoring running applications and containers
- [checkpointctl](https://github.com/checkpoint-restore/checkpointctl) - A tool for in-depth analysis of container checkpoints
- [criu-coordinator](https://github.com/checkpoint-restore/criu-coordinator) - A tool for coordinated checkpoint/restore of distributed applications with CRIU
- [checkpoint-restore-operator](https://github.com/checkpoint-restore/checkpoint-restore-operator) - A Kubernetes operator for managing checkpoints

More information about the checkpoint/restore integration with Kubernetes is also available [here](https://criu.org/Kubernetes).

> ## Related Events

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Related events
```
